README.md, before:

# graphql-gateway-rest-microservices-sample
This Repository contains three microservices, from these two are REST services and one graphql gateway . All implemented in NodeJs.
The idea is to demonstrate how to implement a GraphQL Gateway using REST microservices documented with OpenApi/Swagger.
Using the mocked data from the REST microservices, graphql is able to establish relations between the data that belongs to different services.
The graphql-gateway performs autogeneration of Types, Queries and Mutations based on the Swagger documentation of each microservice.

## Runnning all services
To run all services
```sh
docker-compose up --build # Build, initialize and publish the services
docker-compose up # Start services if were build previously
```
Can be accessed visually accessing to [`http://localhost:5000`](http://localhost:5000) to create Queries, Mutations and access all Types autogenerated from the microservices

### Queries and Mutations samples
Performs a search of customers by name, also includes per customer a list of invoices.
```graphql
mutation customersSearch {
  searchCustomerByName(body: {name: "John"}) {
    data {
      customerId
      firstName
      lastName
      invoices {
        amount
        invoiceDate
        customerId
      }
    }
  }
}
```
Get a customer by Id and the associated invoices
```graphql
query {
  getCustomerById(customerId: "1") {
    firstName
    invoices {
      amount
      customerType
      invoiceNumber
    }
  }
}
```
Retrieve an invoice by Id and returning the associated customer
```graphql
query {
  getInvoiceById(invoiceId: "10") {
    amount
    invoiceNumber
    invoiceDate
    customer {
      firstName
      lastName
      email
    }
  }
}
```

## Running services independently
### Customer-Api
Contains the follwowing endpoints:
- `POST /customers/search # Customers search, Returns a list of Customers`
- `GET /customers/{customerId} #Find a customer by ID, Return a Customer`

The service can be found under the directory [`/customer`](https://github.com/segpacto/graphql-gateway-microservices-sample/tree/master/customer).

Running standalone service:
```sh
npm install
npm run start
```
Can be accessed visually accessing to [`http://localhost:3000/api-docs`](http://localhost:3000/api-docs)
To use the [Swagger-UI](https://swagger.io/tools/swagger-ui/) to create the requests directly from the web, on [`/customer/swagger.json`](https://github.com/segpacto/graphql-gateway-microservices-sample/blob/master/customer/swagger.json) set the property `host` to `localhost:3000`

### Invoice-Api
Contains the follwowing endpoints:
- `GET /invoices/customer/{customerId} # Find invoices by customer ID, Returns a list of Invoices`
- `GET /invoices/{invoiceId} # Find an invoice by ID, Returns an Invoice`

The service can be found under the directory [`/invoice`](https://github.com/segpacto/graphql-gateway-microservices-sample/tree/master/invoice).
Running standalone service:
```sh
npm install
npm run start
```
Can be accessed visually accessing to [`http://localhost:3001/api-docs`](http://localhost:3001/api-docs)
To use the [Swagger-UI](https://swagger.io/tools/swagger-ui/) to create the requests directly from the web, on [`/invoice/swagger.json`](https://github.com/segpacto/graphql-gateway-microservices-sample/blob/master/invoice/swagger.json) set the property `host` to `localhost:3001`

### GraphQL-Gateway
The service can be found under the directory [`/graphql-gateway`](https://github.com/segpacto/graphql-gateway-microservices-sample/tree/master/graphql-gateway).
The service uses under the hood the package [gql-gateway](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gql-gateway). To learn how to establish [data relations](https://github.com/segpacto/graphql-gateway-microservices-sample/blob/master/graphql-gateway/index.js) take a deeper look at  the gql-gateway [README](https://github.com/segpacto/gql-gateway#readme).

Running standalone service:
```sh
npm install
npm run start
```
Can be accessed visually accessing to [`http://localhost:5000`](http://localhost:5000)
To start this service the [OpenApi/Swagger](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/about/) documentation endpoints should be reachable, and to create Queries and Mutations
those services should be accessible.
On the OpenAPI/Swagger documentation of each service the `host` and `basePath` should be properly configured, this is what indicates to this service where to direct all the requests.


`Note`: This a simplified version of how to build a GraphQL Gateway, and it is meant to be for `educational purposes only`. To make a proper use of an architecture like the one described here, is necessary to implement `tests`, create a proper cache policies according to your business case need, API gateway to control the access to your microservices and make partial validation of JWT token if it is the case, introduce good CI/CD strategies and keep the good practices for building APIs.

Commit message:

feat: adding full article in pdf

README.md, after:

# graphql-gateway-rest-microservices-sample
This Repository contains three microservices, from these two are REST services and one graphql gateway . All implemented in NodeJs.
The idea is to demonstrate how to implement a GraphQL Gateway using REST microservices documented with OpenApi/Swagger.
Using the mocked data from the REST microservices, graphql is able to establish relations between the data that belongs to different services.
The graphql-gateway performs autogeneration of Types, Queries and Mutations based on the Swagger documentation of each microservice.

## Article
For a deeper understanding of the reasons and context for this Repo. Please, take a look at the [full article](https://github.com/segpacto/graphql-gateway-microservices-sample/tree/master/article.pdf).

## Runnning all services
To run all services
```sh
docker-compose up --build # Build, initialize and publish the services
docker-compose up # Start services if were build previously
```
Can be accessed visually accessing to [`http://localhost:5000`](http://localhost:5000) to create Queries, Mutations and access all Types autogenerated from the microservices

### Queries and Mutations samples
Performs a search of customers by name, also includes per customer a list of invoices.
```graphql
mutation customersSearch {
  searchCustomerByName(body: {name: "John"}) {
    data {
      customerId
      firstName
      lastName
      invoices {
        amount
        invoiceDate
        customerId
      }
    }
  }
}
```
Get a customer by Id and the associated invoices
```graphql
query {
  getCustomerById(customerId: "1") {
    firstName
    invoices {
      amount
      customerType
      invoiceNumber
    }
  }
}
```
Retrieve an invoice by Id and returning the associated customer
```graphql
query {
  getInvoiceById(invoiceId: "10") {
    amount
    invoiceNumber
    invoiceDate
    customer {
      firstName
      lastName
      email
    }
  }
}
```

## Running services independently
### Customer-Api
Contains the follwowing endpoints:
- `POST /customers/search # Customers search, Returns a list of Customers`
- `GET /customers/{customerId} #Find a customer by ID, Return a Customer`

The service can be found under the directory [`/customer`](https://github.com/segpacto/graphql-gateway-microservices-sample/tree/master/customer).

Running standalone service:
```sh
npm install
npm run start
```
Can be accessed visually accessing to [`http://localhost:3000/api-docs`](http://localhost:3000/api-docs)
To use the [Swagger-UI](https://swagger.io/tools/swagger-ui/) to create the requests directly from the web, on [`/customer/swagger.json`](https://github.com/segpacto/graphql-gateway-microservices-sample/blob/master/customer/swagger.json) set the property `host` to `localhost:3000`

### Invoice-Api
Contains the follwowing endpoints:
- `GET /invoices/customer/{customerId} # Find invoices by customer ID, Returns a list of Invoices`
- `GET /invoices/{invoiceId} # Find an invoice by ID, Returns an Invoice`

The service can be found under the directory [`/invoice`](https://github.com/segpacto/graphql-gateway-microservices-sample/tree/master/invoice).
Running standalone service:
```sh
npm install
npm run start
```
Can be accessed visually accessing to [`http://localhost:3001/api-docs`](http://localhost:3001/api-docs)
To use the [Swagger-UI](https://swagger.io/tools/swagger-ui/) to create the requests directly from the web, on [`/invoice/swagger.json`](https://github.com/segpacto/graphql-gateway-microservices-sample/blob/master/invoice/swagger.json) set the property `host` to `localhost:3001`

### GraphQL-Gateway
The service can be found under the directory [`/graphql-gateway`](https://github.com/segpacto/graphql-gateway-microservices-sample/tree/master/graphql-gateway).
The service uses under the hood the package [gql-gateway](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gql-gateway). To learn how to establish [data relations](https://github.com/segpacto/graphql-gateway-microservices-sample/blob/master/graphql-gateway/index.js) take a deeper look at  the gql-gateway [README](https://github.com/segpacto/gql-gateway#readme).

Running standalone service:
```sh
npm install
npm run start
```
Can be accessed visually accessing to [`http://localhost:5000`](http://localhost:5000)
To start this service the [OpenApi/Swagger](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/about/) documentation endpoints should be reachable, and to create Queries and Mutations
those services should be accessible.
On the OpenAPI/Swagger documentation of each service the `host` and `basePath` should be properly configured, this is what indicates to this service where to direct all the requests.


`Note`: This a simplified version of how to build a GraphQL Gateway, and it is meant to be for `educational purposes only`. To make a proper use of an architecture like the one described here, is necessary to implement `tests`, create a proper cache policies according to your business case need, API gateway to control the access to your microservices and make partial validation of JWT token if it is the case, introduce good CI/CD strategies and keep the good practices for building APIs.
